P a g e | 102 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX
“Your — ?”
“My dear old mum, yeah,” said Sirius. “We’ve been
trying to get her down for a month but we think she
put a Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of the
canvas. Let’s get downstairs, quick, before they all
wake up again.”
“But what’s a portrait of your mother doing here?”
Harry asked, bewildered, as they went through the
door from the hall and led the way down a flight of
narrow stone steps, the others just behind them.
“Hasn’t anyone told you? This was my parents’
house,” said Sirius. “But I’m the last Black left, so it’s
mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore for headquarters
— about the only useful thing I’ve been able to do.”
Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how
hard and bitter Sirius’s voice sounded. He followed
his godfather to the bottom of the stairs and through
a door leading into the basement kitchen.
P a g e | 103 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a
cavernous room with rough stone walls. Most of the
light was coming from a large fire at the far end of the
room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like battle
fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of
heavy iron pots and pans hanging from the dark
ceiling. Many chairs had been crammed into the room
for the meeting and a long wooden table stood in the
middle of the room, littered with rolls of parchment,
goblets, empty wine bottles, and a heap of what
appeared to be rags. Mr. Weasley and his eldest son,
Bill, were talking quietly with their heads together at
the end of the table.
Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin,
balding, red-haired man, who wore horn-rimmed
glasses, looked around and jumped to his feet.
“Harry!” Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet
him and shaking his hand vigorously. “Good to see
you!”
Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his
long hair in a ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths
of parchment left on the table.
“Journey all right, Harry?” Bill called, trying to gather
up twelve scrolls at once. “Mad-Eye didn’t make you
come via Greenland, then?”
“He tried,” said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and
immediately sending a candle toppling onto the last
piece of parchment. “Oh no — sorry —”
“Here, dear,” said Mrs. Weasley, sounding
exasperated, and she repaired the parchment with a
wave of her wand: In the flash of light caused by Mrs.
Weasley’s charm, Harry caught a glimpse of what
looked like the plan of a building.
P a g e | 104 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
Mrs. Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the
plan off the table and stuffed it into Bill’s heavily
laden arms.
“This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly
at the end of meetings,” she snapped before sweeping
off toward an ancient dresser from which she started
unloading dinner plates.
Bill took out his wand, muttered “Evanesco!” and the
scrolls vanished.
“Sit down, Harry,” said Sirius. “You’ve met
Mundungus, haven’t you?”
The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a
prolonged, grunting snore and then jerked awake.
“Some’n say m’ name?” Mundungus mumbled
sleepily. “I ’gree with Sirius...”
He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though
voting, his droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused. Ginny
giggled.
“The meeting’s over, Dung,” said Sirius, as they all sat
down around him at the table. “Harry’s arrived.”
“Eh?” said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry
through his matted ginger hair. “Blimey, so ’e ’as.
Yeah … you all right, ’arry?”
“Yeah,” said Harry.
Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still
staring at Harry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe.
He stuck it in his mouth, ignited the end of it with his
wand, and took a deep pull on it. Great billowing
clouds of greenish smoke obscured him in seconds.
P a g e | 105 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
“Owe you a ’pology,” grunted a voice from the middle
of the smelly cloud.
“For the last time, Mundungus,” called Mrs. Weasley,
“will you please not smoke that thing in the kitchen,
especially not when we’re about to eat!”
“Ah,” said Mundungus. “Right. Sorry, Molly.”
The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed
his pipe back in his pocket, but an acrid smell of
burning socks lingered.
“And if you want dinner before midnight I’ll need a
hand,” Mrs. Weasley said to the room at large. “No,
you can stay where you are, Harry dear, you’ve had a
long journey —”
“What can I do, Molly?” said Tonks enthusiastically,
bounding forward.
Mrs. Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive.
“Er — no, it’s all right, Tonks, you have a rest too,
you’ve done enough today —”
“No, no, I want to help!” said Tonks brightly, knocking
over a chair as she hurried toward the dresser from
which Ginny was collecting cutlery.
Soon a series of heavy knives were chopping meat
and vegetables of their own accord, supervised by Mr.
Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley stirred a cauldron
dangling over the fire and the others took out plates,
more goblets, and food from the pantry. Harry was
left at the table with Sirius and Mundungus, who was
still blinking mournfully at him.
“Seen old Figgy since?” he asked.
P a g e | 106 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
“No,” said Harry, “I haven’t seen anyone.”
“See, I wouldn’t ’ave left,” said Mundungus, leaning
forward, a pleading note in his voice, “but I ’ad a
business opportunity —”
Harry felt something brush against his knees and
started, but it was only Crookshanks, Hermione’s
bandy-legged ginger cat, who wound himself once
around Harry’s legs, purring, then jumped onto
Sirius’s lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him
absentmindedly behind the ears as he turned, still
grim-faced, to Harry.
“Had a good summer so far?”
“No, it’s been lousy,” said Harry.
For the first time, something like a grin flitted across
Sirius’s face.
“Don’t know what you’re complaining about, myself.”
“What?” said Harry incredulously.
“Personally, I’d have welcomed a dementor attack. A
deadly struggle for my soul would have broken the
monotony nicely. You think you’ve had it bad, at least
you’ve been able to get out and about, stretch your
legs, get into a few fights... I’ve been stuck inside for a
month.”
“How come?” asked Harry, frowning.
“Because the Ministry of Magic’s still after me, and
Voldemort will know all about me being an Animagus
by now, Wormtail will have told him, so my big
disguise is useless. There’s not much I can do for the
Order of the Phoenix … or so Dumbledore feels.”
P a g e | 107 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
There was something about the slightly flattened tone of voice in which
Sirius uttered Dumbledore’s name
that told Harry that Sirius was not very happy with
the headmaster either. Harry felt a sudden upsurge of
affection for his godfather.
“At least you’ve known what’s been going on,” he said
bracingly.
“Oh yeah,” said Sirius sarcastically. “Listening to
Snape’s reports, having to take all his snide hints that
he’s out there risking his life while I’m sat on my
backside here having a nice comfortable time …
asking me how the cleaning’s going —”
“What cleaning?” asked Harry.
“Trying to make this place fit for human habitation,”
said Sirius, waving a hand around the dismal
kitchen. “No one’s lived here for ten years, not since
my dear mother died, unless you count her old
house-elf, and he’s gone round the twist, hasn’t
cleaned anything in ages —”
“Sirius?” said Mundungus, who did not appear to
have paid any attention to this conversation, but had
been minutely examining an empty goblet. “This solid
silver, mate?”
“Yes,” said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. “Finest
fifteenth-century goblin-wrought silver, embossed
with the Black family crest.”
“That’d come off, though,” muttered Mundungus,
polishing it with his cuff.
“Fred — George — NO, JUST CARRY THEM!” Mrs.
Weasley shrieked.
P a g e | 108 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and, a
split second later, dived away from the table. Fred
and George had bewitched a large cauldron of stew,
an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy wooden
breadboard, complete with knife, to hurtle through
the air toward them. The stew skidded the length of
the table and came to a halt just before the end,
leaving a long black burn on the wooden surface, the
flagon of butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its
contents everywhere, and the bread knife slipped off
the board and landed, point down and quivering
ominously, exactly where Sirius’s right hand had
been seconds before.
“FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE!” screamed Mrs. Weasley.
“THERE WAS NO NEED — I’VE HAD ENOUGH OF
THIS — JUST BECAUSE YOU’RE ALLOWED TO USE
MAGIC NOW YOU DON’T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR
WANDS OUT FOR EVERY TINY LITTLE THING!”
“We were just trying to save a bit of time!” said Fred,
hurrying forward and wrenching the bread knife out
of the table. “Sorry Sirius, mate — didn’t mean to —”
Harry and Sirius were both laughing. Mundungus,
who had toppled backward off his chair, was swearing
as he got to his feet. Crookshanks had given an angry
hiss and shot off under the dresser, from whence his
large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness.
“Boys,” Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into
the middle of the table, “your mother’s right, you’re
supposed to show a sense of responsibility now you’ve
come of age —”
“— none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!”
Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh
flagon of butterbeer onto the table and spilling almost
as much again. “Bill didn’t feel the need to Apparate
P a g e | 109 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
every few feet! Charlie didn’t Charm everything he
met! Percy —”
She stopped dead, catching her breath with a
frightened look at her husband, whose expression
was suddenly wooden.
“Let’s eat,” said Bill quickly.
“It looks wonderful, Molly,” said Lupin, ladling stew
onto a plate for her and handing it across the table.
For a few minutes there was silence but for the chink
of plates and cutlery and the scraping of chairs as
everyone settled down to their food. Then Mrs.
Weasley turned to Sirius and said, “I’ve been meaning
to tell you, there’s something trapped in that writing
desk in the drawing room, it keeps rattling and
shaking. Of course, it could just be a boggart, but I
thought we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at it
before we let it out.”
“Whatever you like,” said Sirius indifferently.
“The curtains in there are full of doxies too,” Mrs.
Weasley went on. “I thought we might try and tackle
them tomorrow.”
“I look forward to it,” said Sirius. Harry heard the
sarcasm in his voice, but he was not sure that anyone
else did.
Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione
and Ginny by transforming her nose between
mouthfuls. Screwing up her eyes each time with the
same pained expression she had worn back in Harry’s
bedroom, her nose swelled to a beaklike protuberance
like Snape’s, shrank to something resembling a
button mushroom, and then sprouted a great deal of
P a g e | 110 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
hair from each nostril. Apparently this was a regular mealtime
entertainment, because after a while
Hermione and Ginny started requesting their favorite
noses.
“Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks …”
Tonks obliged, and Harry, looking up, had the fleeting
impression that a female Dudley was grinning at him
from across the table.
Mr. Weasley, Bill, and Lupin were having an intense
discussion about goblins.
“They’re not giving anything away yet,” said Bill. “I
still can’t work out whether they believe he’s back or
not. ’Course, they might prefer not to take sides at all.
Keep out of it.”
“I’m sure they’d never go over to You-Know-Who,”
said Mr. Weasley, shaking his head. “They’ve suffered
losses too. Remember that goblin family he murdered
last time, somewhere near Nottingham?”
“I think it depends what they’re offered,” said Lupin.
“And I’m not talking about gold; if they’re offered
freedoms we’ve been denying them for centuries
they’re going to be tempted. Have you still not had
any luck with Ragnok, Bill?”
“He’s feeling pretty anti-wizard at the moment,” said
Bill. “He hasn’t stopped raging about the Bagman
business, he reckons the Ministry did a cover-up,
those goblins never got their gold from him, you know
—”
A gale of laughter from the middle of the table
drowned the rest of Bill’s words. Fred, George, Ron,
and Mundungus were rolling around in their seats.
P a g e | 111 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
“… and then,” choked Mundungus, tears running
down his face, “and then, if you’ll believe it, ’e says to
me, ’e says, ‘’ere, Dung, where didja get all them toads
from? ’Cos some son of a Bludger’s gone and nicked
all mine!’ And I says, ‘Nicked all your toads, Will,
what next? So you’ll be wanting some more, then?’
And if you’ll believe me, lads, the gormless gargoyle
buys all ’is own toads back orf me for twice what ’e
paid in the first place —”
“I don’t think we need to hear any more of your
business dealings, thank you very much,
Mundungus,” said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Ron
slumped forward onto the table, howling with
laughter.
“Beg pardon, Molly,” said Mundungus at once, wiping
his eyes and winking at Harry. “But, you know, Will
nicked ’em orf Warty Harris in the first place so I
wasn’t really doing nothing wrong —”
“I don’t know where you learned about right and
wrong, Mundungus, but you seem to have missed a
few crucial lessons,” said Mrs. Weasley coldly.
Fred and George buried their faces in their goblets of
butterbeer; George was hiccuping. For some reason,
Mrs. Weasley threw a very nasty look at Sirius before
getting to her feet and going to fetch a large rhubarb
crumble for pudding. Harry looked round at his
godfather.
“Molly doesn’t approve of Mundungus,” said Sirius in
an undertone.
“How come he’s in the Order?” Harry said very
quietly.
P a g e | 112 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
“He’s useful,” Sirius muttered. “Knows all the crooks
— well, he would, seeing as he’s one himself. But he’s
also very loyal to Dumbledore, who helped him out of
a tight spot once. It pays to have someone like Dung
around, he hears things we don’t. But Molly thinks
inviting him to stay for dinner is going too far. She
hasn’t forgiven him for slipping off duty when he was
supposed to be tailing you.”
Three helpings of rhubarb crumble and custard later
and the waistband on Harry’s jeans was feeling
uncomfortably tight (which was saying something, as
the jeans had once been Dudley’s). He lay down his
spoon in a lull in the general conversation. Mr.
Weasley was leaning back in his chair, looking replete
and relaxed, Tonks was yawning widely, her nose now
back to normal, and Ginny, who had lured
Crookshanks out from under the dresser, was sitting
cross-legged on the floor, rolling butterbeer corks for
him to chase.
“Nearly time for bed, I think,” said Mrs. Weasley on a
yawn.
“Not just yet, Molly,” said Sirius, pushing away his
empty plate and turning to look at Harry. “You know,
I’m surprised at you. I thought the first thing you’d do
when you got here would be to start asking questions
about Voldemort.”
The atmosphere in the room changed with the
rapidity Harry associated with the arrival of
dementors. Where seconds before it had been sleepily
relaxed, it was now alert, even tense. A frisson had
gone around the table at the mention of Voldemort’s
name. Lupin, who had been about to take a sip of
wine, lowered his goblet slowly, looking wary
























